For decades, debate has raged on in ufology about the existence of a committee of elite
military leaders, government officials, and scientists tasked with the investigation study
and collection of UFOs and their occupants.
This now infamous group was revealed through hundreds of allegedly leaked documents over
the course of 1984 to 1999 to be titled the Majestic 12 or MJ12.
Any viewer of my work will know I often reference the majestic documents in MJ12, such as my
Dell Rio case where I bring up the majestic document called the Eisenhower Briefing Document,
in which I reference a December 1950 UFO crash retrieval stated to have occurred near the
Mexican-Texas border between El Indio and Guerrera.
A crash retrieval Lou Elizondo has now stated to have occurred in his 2024 book Eminent.
So with the contentious nature surrounding the majestic documents in ufology, the debunking
work done by professional skeptic Philip K Glass and others, alongside the FBI's work
to haphazardly write bogus across one set of documents to label all documents as false,
why cover the majestic documents?
To me, the analysis of MJ12 and the majestic documents must consist of studying the documents
themselves.
Their origins, content, provenance, and connective tissue to not only other majestic documents
but also acknowledged and declassified files, like the work done by the legendary Stanton
Friedman and world-class Ryan S. Wood.
This is why today I have partnered with fantastic UFO researcher Ryan S. Wood to explore the
majestic documents.
Ryan and his father, Dr. Robert Wood, a former McDonald-Douglas rocket scientist, have spent
decades painstakingly scrutinizing the entire catalog of majestic documents to unravel the
mystery that is the Majestic 12.
Hey guys, it's UAPGurb and thank you so very much for joining the author of Magic Eyes
Only and myself as we discuss the authenticity, origin, and context of the majestic documents.
With the revelations of David Grush in the 21st century, the reality of UFO crash retrieval
and reverse engineering has made its way into the public zeitgeist.
This is why we must take a closer inspection of the highly debated group allegedly first
tasked with UFO crash retrievals, the Majestic 12.
Before we get into the interview, I want to take a brief moment to introduce the Majestic
12 for any newcomer to the subject.
I highly recommend reading Top Secret Magic by Stanton Friedman, StudyingMajesticDocuments.com
written by Ryan and Dr. Bob, my all-time favorite book, Magic Eyes Only by Ryan S. Wood, or
reading the incredible medium articles by Blocked Epistemology.
The Majestic 12 is a group known from a series of controversial leaked documents to have been
tasked with UFO study, collection, and analysis.
The group seemingly rose to power around the time of the 1947 Roswell, New Mexico crash,
but with origins extending even earlier around 1941 or 1942.
According to Stanton Friedman, the group allegedly consisted of 12 members, MJ-1 through 12, consisting
of six civilian and six military personnel.
Of the military people, two representatives each from the Army, Navy, and Air Force served
in the MJ-12.
The private sector saw seasoned research and development organizers and very strong intelligence
community leaders participate in the group.
Viewers of my Robert Sarbakar video will remember Dr. Vannevar Bush, head of the Office of Scientific
Research and Development, who was labeled a crucial founding member of the Majestic 12.
Other original members named in the Majestic documents include General Nathan Twining,
the leader of Project Sine, a.k.a. Project Saucer in 1948, James Forrestal, Secretary
of the Navy and First U.S. Secretary of Defense, who conveniently threw himself out of a hospital
window in 1949, Donald H. Menzel, astronomer at Harvard and high security consultant to
the NSA and CIA, Roscoe H. Hillencoder, Admiral Navy Intelligence and First Director of the
CIA.
Walter B. Smith, General in the U.S. Army, Ambassador to the USSR, Second Director of
the CIA, and Forrestal's replacement.
And Hoyt S. Vandenberg, USAF General, Second Director of the Central Intelligence Group,
Air Force Chief of Staff.
And this is just a slice of the total members.
I highly recommend analyzing the MJ-12 master list created by Ryan Wood.
Many over the years have hypothesized what the magic in MJ-12 stands for.
After Blocked Epistemology hypothesizes this name is derived from the 1945 May Johnson Atomic
Energy Bill.
Excellent Reddit researcher, user HarryIsWhiteHot, believed magic was some sort of continuation
of a very high classification standard titled MAGIC, used during World War II.
I find myself believing magic is an abbreviation for a Joint Intelligence Committee, possibly
something along the lines of a Majority Joint Intelligence Committee-12.
But without further ado, let's talk to Ryan S. Wood and begin to dive into the origins
of the documents.
Yeah, well, the broad brush is that there's some 3,500 pages over 19 years from seven
different sources.
The first event was in 1984, when Jamie Chandra, which was an L.A. producer, a TV producer
I believe, received the Eisenhower Briefing Document, which Stan Friedman ultimately got
in, outlines the original 12 MJ-12 members in that document.
And that's the one that was taken around to the FBI and several people submitted it to
the FBI, because the FBI is responsible for leaks of classified documents.
And the FBI took it to a variety of three-letter agencies and said, did you lose this?
And they said, well, no, we didn't lose this, we don't know anything about it.
And so after their process, they declared it bogus.
Despite the efforts of Stan Friedman to authenticate a whole variety of people that were MJ-12 members,
and then the other two different sources for that same document that came into the field
years after that.
Some with different marginalia, some with slightly different three-hole punching.
And so, I mean, they aren't stunningly authentic in original paper or something like that,
but there are some other sources of that same document that have surfaced over time.
But it was a briefing for Eisenhower, and that was the first one.
And that sort of kicked things off and got Stan Friedman really pushing along.
Returning viewers of my channel will know the first ever Majestic document quite well,
the top secret magic eyes only Eisenhower briefing document.
This document stating to contain compartmentalized information essential to US national security
was organized to brief president incumbent Dwight D. Eisenhower on the Majestic 12 group
on November 18, 1952.
The document labels Operation Majestic 12 as a top secret R&D slash intelligence operation
reporting solely to the president of the United States.
Set up by a classified executive order of President Harry Truman by recommendation
of Dr. Vannevar Bush and Secretary Forrestal on the 24th of September 1947.
Funny enough, in the daily appointment history of Harry Truman,
we can find a meeting with Secdef James Forrestal and Dr. Vannevar Bush arranged at the suggestion
of Forrestal.
The briefing document includes a list of all 12 sitting MJ12 members including General Walter
B. Smith who replaced the deceased secretary Forrestal on August 1, 1950.
And again, we can find an actual appointment held off record with Truman and Walter B. Smith
on this exact date.
The briefing document discusses the hysteria caused by saucer sightings of Kenneth Arnold
in the summer of 1947 and subsequent failures to pursue these discs in flight.
July 7, 1947, oversaw the beginning of the MJ12 with the Roswell crash.
Northwest of Roswell Army Airfield experienced the now most famous UFO crash in history,
which according to the Eisenhower briefing document saw craft and body collection efforts
by General Nathan Twining and Dr. Vannevar Bush.
A soon to be sitting MJ12 member, Dr. Detlev Bronk performed autopsies on the bodies and
coined the term EBE, or Extraterrestrial Biological Entity.
The Roswell team and Dr. Donald Menzel concluded the craft was of non-human origin and likely
originated from a solar system far removed from our own.
The report discusses forms of writing on the Roswell craft, something primary witness Jesse
Marcel Sr. and Jr. would claim to witness on a small piece of metallic debris.
The Roswell report led directly to the creation of projects Sine, Grudge, and Blue Book with
very limited interaction between these official programs and the Majestic 12.
And I'll draw your attention back to a whistleblower I covered, Brigadier General Stephen
Lovekin, who claimed to have observed pieces of Roswell debris in a classified portion of
Project Blue Book far removed from the official reports.
The document then discusses the 1950 L Indio crash, touched on in 2024 by Lou Elizondo and
makes specific mention of the Atomic Energy Commission and Sandia National Labs.
Curiously, near the end of the document is listed a contingency plan,
MJ-1949-04, P-7-8, and just remember that contingency plan.
Tireless work was done by Stanton Friedman authenticating the Eisenhower Briefing
document in his book Top Secret Slash Magic.
But there are two specific investigations I want to mention.
In 1989, Friedman physically traveled to the National Archives and reviewed files of the
Office for the Secretary of Defense.
Within these documents were numerous November 18, 1952 briefing documents for President-Elect
Eisenhower. None of these briefings mentioned MJ-12, but it is fact the Truman administration
was indeed briefing Eisenhower on this date.
Investigation 2 circles around the labeled briefing officer Admiral Rosco H. Hillencoder.
Debunkers of the Majestic documents claim Hillencoder was sent to Korea in 1950 for six years.
However, Friedman was able to determine Hillencoder was indeed present in Brooklyn, New York
in late 1952 when he was made head of the Third Naval District in New York.
So Hillencoder could have indeed been present at the Washington briefings on November 1952.
And many MJ-12 files with Hillencoder as a key individual exist, though they do require further
research. Such as this February 11, 1948 Hillencoder to Truman Majestic Black Book Summaries
document, which makes direct mention to MAGIC. Or the September 19, 1963 CIA Director Hillencoder
to Donald Menzel Memo, which sees the director congratulating his fellow alleged MJ-12 member
on his book regarding what we can assume was successful obfuscation of the UFO reality.
And lastly, we have some key clues on a September 19, 1947 memo from Hillencoder to Joint
Intelligence Committee. This majestic document memo allegedly dated just before Bush and
Forestall's request to create MJ-12 is titled, quote, Memorandum for the Military Assessment
of the Joint Intelligence Committee, end quote, aka MAGIC. The memo requests a classified intelligence
project, quote, we recovered one craft, captured one, end quote. This memo states no clear coordinated
scientific examination was possible until, quote, we got a clear directive from the president.
The memo also states Wright Field had a new biological laboratory, the Joint Research
and Development Board, and the FBI, MI5 and MI6 were helping with the effort. And finally,
guys, back to Mr. Wood. The other one that's really big is the Special Operations Manual,
Extraterrestrial Antities Technology Recovery and Disposal. And that was leaked in 1994
to Don Berliner, who was an aviation week and space reporter in Washington, D.C.
And it was an undeveloped film. I came in a little green box and they went and my father and I and,
well, not me, but my father and Don went to the dark room and developed it and got all the
original images. I'll just pull a couple sheets out just for fun to show you. This is,
you know, came in an echo binder along the edge over here and also became with the Change Control
page, which is difficult to see, but it says Kirkland Air Force Base Unit KB-88 Building 21,
Kirkland Air Force Base, N.M.X. We found that there was a Building 21, I think it's now called
Building 40, back then. And the fact that the abbreviation for the stamp, Kirkland Air Force
Base, N.M.X, is the correct postal abbreviation for 1954 for New Mexico. If it said NM, that would
have been a hallmark of fakery or an anachronism that would be worthy of lots of investigation.
Mr. Wood and myself will speak on the Special Operations Manual throughout this video,
so we will only go into brief detail here. The manual according to Ryan Wood, Dr. Robert Wood,
and Stanton Friedman is equally, if not more authentic than the Eisenhower Briefing Document.
Friedman has even stated, quote, the Majestic 12 documents problem is complex and extensive.
On balance, it appears that the EBD, TFM, and CTM are almost certainly genuine. The SOM-101
likely genuine, end quote. Debate has raged on for decades now, if the document is a hoax,
real, or possibly Soviet disinformation. Later in the interview, we will do an entire analysis
into the Special Operations Manual, or the SOM-101 as I'll refer to it. But for now,
understand this manual, allegedly written in 1954 and initially housed in Kirkland Air Force Base,
serves as a comprehensive summary of majestic operations for quote unquote,
Majestic 12 units, and quote unquote, authorized personnel. The manual contains everything from
MJ-12 full operational capacity and modus operandi, NHI craft and body descriptions,
to MJ-12 recovery and disinformation protocols. Similar to his masterpiece, Magic Eyes Only,
Ryan Wood has attributed a weighted authenticity rating to every document based on factors such
as direct firsthand witnesses, forensic analysis if possible, document source, etc. The Special
Operations Manual and Eisenhower Briefing Document are two of the few pieces Wood has
rated with the highest level of authenticity. But are there others with such high confidence?
But I would also add the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit document, because the governments acknowledged
the existence of the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit, part of the Stephen J. Chamberlain Assistant
Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Technical and Scientific Directorate, Counterintelligence Group,
IPU Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit. You know, all these hierarchies down in the, you know, 40s
time frame. Well, this was 47 where the IPU document. But what's interesting about the IPU
document, which is on majesticdocuments.com, people can read it. And in my book, Magic Eyes Only,
is details about the Roswell crash, you know, when it crashed at 2332 Mountain Standard Time and
dropped off radar. And it had discussions of body parts inside the craft in the handwritten notes.
And it had discussions of autopsies of the aliens done by Dietliff Bronk and Charles Ethan Ray,
which, you know, when I started to look around, I said, who's who's Charles Ethan Ray? And he was a
medical core expert with Leslie Groves, the head of the Manhattan Project. And
and I called up his daughter in Seattle and said, you know, do you think your father could have
autopsied an alien? And she didn't hesitate at all and said, yes, not that she knew that he did it,
but it's clear in her mind that, oh, absolutely, this is the sort of stuff he would have been tapped to do.
So I mean, there, there's just more and more details, stories about the IPU and that document.
And so those three, I mean, each one has its own basket of interesting facts and authenticity.
Viewers of this channel will know recently, I have been discussing the Interplanetary
Phenomenon Unit, the US Army's in-house unofficial department in the 50s for an
assistant chief of staff for intelligence to study UFOs. The IPU initially discovered through
FOIA requests after initial DoD denial exists only through quote unquote institutional memory.
I highly recommend reading Anthony Bergoglia's piece on the IPU. The existence of this division
was first revealed on September 6, 1980, in a FOIA request by Richard Hall and later confirmed in a
1984 FOIA request by UFO researcher William Steinman. It took until the 1990s for the USG
to state all records were destroyed. Even though Hall's 1980 request oversaw the Army Director
of Counterintelligence state all IPU records were surrendered to Blue Book. Anyways, as Ryan stated
on MajesticDocuments.com, we can find two IPU documents within the MJ-12 documents,
IPU Field Order and IPU Report. The Interplanetary Phenomenon Field Order lists a July 4, 1947
correspondence of a situation occurring the day before the memo requesting personnel including
an aeronautical engineer and medical doctor cleared for quote need to know end quote.
And this date should ring a bell as occurring right before the Roswell crash. The IPU report
first made its way into the public on July 16, 1995 and lists astonishing information authorized by
Lieutenant General John A. Samford and approved by CIA Director Alan Dolis. Some of you may remember
Samford giving the famous press conference alongside Roswell General Roger Raimi post the 1952 UFOs
over Washington DC incident. This document explores in great detail the events of the Roswell UFO
including initial tracking and assessment of the two sites of the crash to disk.
A very key clue in this document is the mention that some Roswell Army airfield investigators at
LZ-1, the debris field seen by Brazel and Marcel, thought the wreckage may have been a project mogul
balloon until Los Alamos personnel determined the wreckage was something quote unquote out of this
world. If you know anything about the Roswell crash, you'll know it's often explained away
as a project mogul balloon. And this was revealed after the initial weather balloon cover story in
the U.S. Air Force's 1994 report, The Roswell Report. The Roswell Report states the mogul flight
that was misidentified as a large metallic flying saucer with bodies was mogul flight number four
which allegedly launched on June 4, 1947. However, in 2024 project mogul's field operations director
Dr. Alan Crary revealed with evidence flight number four never took place on this day and was
indeed canceled due to weather. Anyways, the IP report states a radio biological team and
security detail from Sandia National Labs were summoned by Colonel S.B. Housebrook. Chosen
scientists consisted of AEC personnel including J. Robert Oppenheimer, Werner von Braun and others.
And before you say this sounds too fantastical, remember von Braun's mentor Herman Osberth
performed serious analysis on UFO flight characteristics. Twining Vandenberg and others
are named within this report as aiding in the recovery effort and overall operation.
And an interesting line here, quote, it has become known to CIC that some of the recovery
operation was shared with Representative John F. Kennedy, end quote. I'm not going to spend
too much more time on the IPU report, but as Wood stated, Detlef Bronk is named as assisting in the
autopsy. The report then discusses the NHI bodies, body parts seemingly dissected similar to a frog
scattered at the primary crash site and the death of multiple Sandia lab techs due to a form of
contamination. And I recently discussed this contamination in my 1974 Koyama Mexico crash
retrieval case. Based on the documents, Ryan Wood has the most confidence are in fact legitimate.
I asked him to describe robustly what exactly compromises the Majestic 12, how various named
members fit into the group and the impact such an organization had on ufology at the
time of the initial MJ 12 documents being leaked. Well, it's a top secret research and development
intelligence gathering organization that was formed by executive order the president in September
24, 1947. You know, 1947 was when the atomic energy act was created when the CIA was created
and sort of the OSS was transitioned office of strategic services, which was the CIA at the time
into the CIA. And, and they formed this top secret research and development intelligence
gathering organization. And it was, you know, headed by Vannevar Bush, part of the
Office of Research and Development, OSRD. And this is where
Eric Walker, Dr. Eric Walker lived working for Vannevar Bush and ultimately took over
the organization and was widely understood to be familiar with MJ 12 while leading it
in that group. So the names of the people caught a lot of attention and Stan did a lot of work
and has written his book, Top Secret Magic, I think, which highlights a lot of the research
around the various people. He dug into Carl Sagan, which was a person that shouldn't have been on
the list sort of, you know, he was a big debunker. And, but when Stan finally went to the various
archives and dug around, he found lots of correspondence between other MJ 12 members.
And, and so that was, you know, interesting and, and powerful for the authenticity of the document.
But it was again, it was a photocopy. Well, actually it was filmed. It was, it was undeveloped film,
just like the special operations manual that arrived. It might have been from the same source,
but it certainly wasn't mailed the same way. Pay close attention here to the name of Dr. Eric
A. Walker. In my video on physicist Robert Sarbakar, I discussed how Dr. Sarbakar directly
named Vannevar Bush as a key figure studying UFOs within the US government. During conversations
with Stanton Friedman, Dr. Sarbakar, who was a member of Bush's Research and Development Board,
mentioned Dr. Eric A. Walker as a key figure connected to UFO crash retrievals. Walker was
contacted by researcher William Steinman and not only confirmed the existence of the Majestic 12,
but actually admitted his own presence at the 1965 Kecksburg, Pennsylvania crash retrieval.
I highly recommend revisiting my video here. So, I mean, going to the special operations manual
that you mentioned with the Ray Z, there's so many hallmarks of authenticity in that particular
document. I could start with the fact that we took it to a retired government printing
officer general, not general, but MacArthur in Washington, DC. He retired from the US
government printing office maybe like six months before we visited him and we went to his house
and set it up on a card table and slid the document across and he looked at it and said,
well, you know, by the title, Extraterrestrial Entities Technology Recovery Disposal, I would
think it's fake. But then he flipped through the documents and saw the disease were raised and said,
oh, this is an artifact of hot lead printing press, besides the fact that he checked it for
everything. I mean, he said the fonts are right. The indentations are correct. The use of M-dashes
in MJ-12 long-dash clearance is correct. The capitalization of first aid was correct for the
period. So, he went through a bunch of subtleties that we didn't understand or perceive at the time
to highlight the fact that it was real in his mind and ultimately concluded that, yeah,
the CIA probably printed it in a cage down on 10th Street. That was his opinion at the time.
With Mr. Wood passionately discussing his authentication methods of the MJ-12 Special
Operations Manual, now is the perfect time to discuss the contents of this absolutely mind-boggling
document. Psalm 1 was sent anonymously to Don Berliner in 1994 and consisted of undeveloped 35
millimeter triax film authenticated to 1954. Labeled top secret magic eyes only, the manual
details the full operational capacity and mission of the Majestic 12. As mentioned by Mr. Wood,
we see the document control is regressed to a singular stamp of Kirtland Air Force Base, New
Mexico. The document control page shows us MJ-12 members, MJ-01 and MJ-04, who altered the document
from 1954 to 1958. Initials listed here are EWL and JRT. Two names Ryan has actually tracked and
we will discuss shortly. And now we get into the meat of this document. Quote, this manual has been
prepared especially for Majestic 12 units, end quote. Its purpose is to present all aspects of
MJ-12, so authorized personnel will have a better understanding of the goals of the group, be able
to more expertly deal with UFOs, ET tech and entities and increase the efficiency of future
operations. Section one, project goals and purposes of this document make some startling
revelations. One, MJ-12 considers unidentified flying objects UFO bees to be a matter of the
very highest order of national security. Two, there would be a negative impact on the public with
general knowledge of the UFO situation. Three, danger present if advanced tech falls into the
hands of adversaries. And four, MJ-12 was established on the 24th of September 1947
under recommendation by Vannevar Bush and Forestall. The goals of MJ-12 are clearly outlined here as
well. One, recovery for scientific study of all materials and devices of foreign or ET
manufacture. Recovery by any and all means by group. This immediately reminds me of the 1974
Koyama case with the American retrieval team finding the craft in Mexico at all costs.
Two, recovery for study of all entities and remains of entities of non-terrestrial origin
through independent action by those entities or by misfortune or military action.
Well, naturally, when you recover something that's either landed or crashed,
sometimes you encounter dead pilots. And believe it or not, as fantastical as that sounds,
it's true. Three, establishment and administration of special teams to accomplish the above
operations, which reminds me for the third video in a row of Christopher Sharpe's article on the
CIA, OGA and JSOC being behind crash retrieval operations. Four, establishment and admin of
special secure facilities located at secret locations within USA for providing receiving,
processing, analysis and study of any and all materials and entities classified as extraterrestrial.
Five, covert operations carried in collusion with the CIA both home and abroad. And six,
establishment and absolute secrecy of all operations. As of the time of the alleged creation
of this document in 1954, MJ-12 does not consider NHI to be a threat, consisting of a benign presence
but with technology far beyond human science. The group had in possession several recovered
dead biologics. Section one general begins to define the scope of the majestic 12,
determination, documentation, collection and disposition of debris, devices, craft and occupants.
This section defines ET technology as aircraft not manufactured by human power,
objects that appear as one of several shapes and configurations and exhibit extraordinary
flight characteristics, consisting of materials exhibiting characteristics beyond science.
And this section even describes EBEs, creatures humanoid or otherwise whose evolutionary process
differs demonstrably from that of Homo sapiens. And now we get to my favorite part of this entire
document, the description of the craft. Elliptical or disc shaped craft appear to be metallic and
dull in color, whose appearance consists of two pie pans or shallow dishes pressed together.
Psalm 101 even lists some dimensions of these craft, they are 50 to 300 feet in diameter,
with their thickness near 15% of the total diameter. A dome extends above the disc,
about 30% of the disc diameter and extends four to six feet above the main body. This dome may or
may not include windows or ports. Lights on the craft exist on the top, bottom and rim that only
function during operation. There's no antenna or projections, but there are three extendable
sets of landing gear. Cigar shape or tic-tacs are considered very rare. They can be 2000 feet long
and 95 feet thick. They do not operate in lower atmosphere and travel at excess of 7k miles per
hour. They do not engage in the rapid erratic or instantaneous maneuvers the smaller craft do.
The ovoid circular or teardrop shapes look almost like an ice cream cone, round at the
large end and tapering to a near point at the other. They are 30 to 40 feet long and have a
diameter 20% of the length. The craft have a bright light at the end point and the craft
travels pointing down. And lastly we have the airfoil or triangular shape. These were considered
new tech due to rarity of recent observations. The craft appear to be an isosceles triangle
with their longest side being near 300 feet length. Little was known about the performance
capabilities, but they operated apparently similar to the disc or ovoid shape. SOM101 then begins to
go into description of extraterrestrial biological entities listing a type 1 and type 2 and thank
you to Bill McDonald for the art here. EBE1's luck humanoid, they are 5 to 5 feet 4 inches tall,
weighing 80 to 100 pounds. They have larger, more rounded craniums with chalky yellow,
thick, slightly pebbled pale skin. They have small eyes, white set that are almost almond shape,
with brownish black irises and very large pupils and gray whites. Their mouths are
wide, nearly lipless. They have fine hair, not confined to underarm and groin. Their body is
thin with no fat and good muscles. EBE1 has small hands, four long digits, no thumb, but webbing.
The description of the type 2 EBE will remind you as much more of a classic gray. They are
humanoid, but 3 feet 5 inches to 4 feet 2 inches tall, weighing 25 to 50 pounds. Their large,
elongated head is larger proportionally to that of a human or EBE1. Their eyes are large, slanted,
and nearly wrap around their head, showing only pure black. The nose appears to be two small slits
above a slit like mouth with no external ears. Their skin is pale blue grayish, fine-celled,
and smooth. They have no hair, leading MJ12 to believe these creatures are not mammalian.
Their hands have three long fingers plus a long thumb. They have four toes jointed with a membrane.
The document then gives astounding descriptions of extraterrestrial technology, recovered from
crash sites from 1947 to 1953. This date range includes Roswell to Kingman.
Metallurgical analyses show the materials were not known to terrestrial science at the time.
The material showed incredible strength and extreme resistance in proportion to weight
and size, appearing similar to aluminum foil or aluminum magnesium sheeting.
Identical to the claims of primary Roswell witness Jesse Marcel Sr. down to the inclusion of
inscriptions on material. In the press blackout section, we find information extremely pertinent
to today's age. Media denial, discrediting witnesses, deceptive statements. There are countless
examples I can discuss here, but I recommend watching my UFO stigma video and paying key
attention to the Robertson panel and Condon committee, and also look at the reprisals against
David Grush. Secure the area, removal and transport, and cleaning the area all detail systems and
protocol for crash retrieval. What is of extreme interest here is the specific mention that any
specific craft or device that appears to be functional is designated to red team. I can't
help but think back to RA and how one piece of technology he observed at the off world
technologies division was designated a weapon during recovery due to an energetic discharge.
But I asked Mr. Wood if he had ever come across this red team before.
I have to look, but I mean, I recall blue, blue fly and blue teams as well. I mean,
I think the term red team and blue team are the same teams, so to speak, in crash retrievals.
But, you know, right in the front description of the special operations manual, they have
they mentioned these MJ 12 recovery teams. And I think in the,
well, you know, at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, they call it the blue lab.
Now onto section 16. Special or unusual conditions has a very interesting note here.
Should the need for public disclosure become necessary, the majestic team was to issue
contingency plan mj-1949-04p-78. Remember this from the Eisenhower briefing document?
We don't have the contingency plan. It's interesting that in the back of the special
operations manual, there's a series of references in the back and they weren't supplied.
That's the missing appendix too, right? Yeah, that's the missing appendix for references.
I mean, it's in the back here. But for example, the photographic references were all correct,
and you can go find them. So they're correctly referenced in the back.
And then there's also the another sort of authenticity point is the UFOB,
unidentified flying object, object identification guide that is listed in the manual, but was not
supplied as photocopies, original photocopies, but other FOIA documents provided a typed version
of it, not type set, but just typed. But when my father re-typed it all, following the format of
the manual, it perfectly matched the page numbers in the table of contents and fit like a glove right
in there. Section 17, extraterrestrial classification table is truly consequential for
analyzing this document. Intact craft, damaged devices, identified and unidentified fragments
and weapons were all to go to Area 51 S4. If you say Area 51 wasn't built in 1954,
we'll discuss this shortly. Media, electronic recordings, maps, charts, etc. were to go to
Kirtland Air Force Base Building 21. Supplies and provisions as well as deceased entities
were to be sent to Wright-Patterson Air Force Blue Room. If Blue Room rings a bell besides
Mr. Wood just commenting on it, remember in my UFO whistleblowers video, Senator Harry Goldwater was
denied access to the contents of the Wright-Patterson Blue Room by General Curtis LeMay.
I think the government does know. I can't back that up, but I think that at Wright-Patterson
Field, if you could get into certain places, you'd find out what the Air Force and the government
knows about UFOs. Reportedly, a spaceship landed and was all hushed up, quieted and nobody ever
have never heard about much of it. I called Curtis LeMay and I said, General, I know we have a room
at Wright-Patterson where you put all his secret stuff. Can I go in there?
I've never heard him get mad, but he got mad at me, cussed me out, said don't ever ask me that question again.
And speaking of General Curtis LeMay, and we have we have a accommodation from Curtis LeMay to
Harry B. Cooper, which is the father of Tim Cooper, where many of these majestic documents came,
and for his outstanding work at the USAF UFO program. So I mean, I can supply you that
document. You can put it up on the screen. Let me see it. So that's another example of,
you know, why in the world would Curtis LeMay sign accommodation for somebody for their USAF
program? It just makes no sense that it's not totally real. I'm just trying to find
a copy of it quickly. Yeah, I mean, it's it's hard to hard to read here. But, you know, this is
this is their seal and accommodation. And it's to Harry B. Cooper, master sergeant,
distinguished himself by Meritorious Service as a non-commissioned officer in charge of printing
management branch and non-commissioned officer in charge of camera section, publishing division,
command directorate of administration of services, headquarters, air defense command,
int Air Force Base, Colorado from 30 September 57 to one June 63. So he was in air force base
between 57 and 63 looking at photographs of UFOs and printing all sorts of classified documents.
And, you know, I think it's Harry's relationship to this UFO topic and the friends that he made
during that time that allowed those friends to decide that I want to give stuff to Harry's son,
Tim Cooper, and several of the mailbox drops that had a lot of these documents from
ostensibly the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit Officer or Moondust Officer came from.
Back to section 17, living entities were to be directed solely to OPNAC BBS 01. Of course,
OPNAV, not OPNAC, stands for the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. There are some who
guess this acronym stands for the Oceanic Platform for the North Atlantic and Caribbean,
and that BBS stands for the Bermuda Biological Station now called BIOS, the Bermuda Institute
of Oceanic Sciences, but there's really no proof here. SOM101 continues with packaging and shipping
protocols for EBE life and states, quote, loss of EBE life is acceptable, and also details in
figure for the extraterrestrial craft referenced earlier in the document. Here we observe classic
saucer and triangle shapes, but also the conical shape, which closely resembles the 1976 Tehran
Iran UFO case and the Cash Landrum case. You know, in 54, now they have the triangle shape,
they have the ice cream cone shape, they got the cigar shape, the typical saucer shape,
but I draw your attention to the triangles and the ice cream cone, which is, you know,
famous for the Cash Landrum case, and triangles are, this is some of the earliest mentions of
flying triangles. But anyways, let's circle back to the document control page and analyze the
initials, EWL and JRT. Inside the control page, which is typical of every highly classified
document, this was apparently two points above top secret, according to the document,
classifications are different now, and it's pretty much, I believe, an Air Force document.
So, I went to the Albuquerque phone book, pulled it up for 1954, 55, 56, I mean,
the entries in the change control page span from 54 to 57, I believe,
and they had the initials. And so, I looked in the phone book and found all the initials, and there
were two people that Jess R. Totten and Captain Lewis, I think, they both lived on Perimeter Road,
like four or five houses from each other, inside Kirkland Air Force Base, at the right time. And
then, that's in the authenticity discussions of, on the specialoperationsmanual.com website,
it's in my book, and I'm working on a new updated pamphlet that will have the whole manual and all
the authenticity discussion that people can read just easily. So, I found them, and then I hired a
private investigator to go find them. And, well, I actually found one guy, one J.R.T., but he said,
he's not the right guy, despite being there at the right time.
And he was the one who lived on the street near kind of what you found from the phone
book at the time near Kirkland, correct? Well, I didn't go to, so the process is really to go to
the Adjutant General's listing in government document libraries to find their name and serial
number, and when you get the serial number, you can get their National Personnel Record Center
files, and then you can start digging around and try to find these people. And I found one J.R.T.,
which I thought was the right person, and went to his house. He took the meeting,
I was surprised, and pulled out a FedEx envelope with this thing, you know, I'm sure he probably
thought I was from the CIA or something, and opened it up, handed it to him, and said,
is this you? And he looked at it for a while and looked at the initials and said, no, well,
I asked him, well, what did you do at Kirkland Air Force Base? And that time, well, I was,
I was sort of a psychological counselor or officer. I mean, you basically sort of hemmed and
hawed about what he did. But nevertheless, the other private investigator found the kids of EWL,
or the, I think it was the, I have to look at my notes, but wife or daughter, I think was the wife.
And apparently he had passed away, was buried, I think he was buried in Florida.
We have a grave marker. And we got platitudes. But, you know, what you hire private investigators,
they're, they can do things that I just find very uncomfortable. They'll just lie to your
face all the time. They'll lead you on. They'll, they'll, they'll squeeze information on all these
methods that, you know, I just don't have the skills to do. And so I found that very interesting
process. So we did our best to find that. But I would say the smoking gun there is that, yay,
two initials are correct. And they were on the base perimeter road, you know, addresses.
And that was just like, whoa, boy, that's a really good hallmark for authenticity
that it was real. And, you know, I know you mentioned John Alexander in his comments.
Maybe you want to set that up and I'll respond.
Some of you may be familiar with Colonel John B. Alexander, a former U.S. Army Colonel whose name
has been deeply entwined with ufology and government psionic programs like remote viewing.
Not only has Alexander made some outward comments on the MJ12.
Okay, we haven't got time to cover all that. MJ12 was real, had absolutely nothing to do with UFOs.
And if you understand what it was designed for, it was the right kind of people, you don't have
to make explanations as how certain people got in. But the people who did know, I mean, I was,
in fact, what the thing was, at one time I had got rumors of the program. And it was one time that
I went to Stubblebine and said, what about this thing? And he says, we're not going to discuss that.
And it was a super, super secret and parts of it still are and need to stay that way.
In his book, UFOs, Myths, Conspiracies and Reality, Alexander claimed Dr. Bob Wood told Alexander he
believed the Psalm 101 manual to have been created in 1954 with the expressed intention to be leaked
to Soviet spies as part of a disinformation campaign. The intent would be to get the Soviets to
commit resources to UAP crash recoveries. Well, what does Ryan have to say?
Yeah, I mean, I wish I knew what he's up to. I guess I've known John for many, many years.
And so is my father. And he's always wanted to push the envelope and try to squeeze information
out of people or trade information. So he has, I mean, he was in Vietnam, he was a special forces
colonel operating in Cambodia illegally, you know, maybe on orders, maybe not. So he's had a long
history of trying to skirt the edge of legitimacy, in my opinion. And, you know, why did he say this,
that it's Russian Soviet, you know, spy craft? I think it was to curry favor with somebody else.
Because it just makes no sense. I mean, there's why would you expose the fact that you've got alien
technology that is going to write Patterson Air Force Base and Air 51S4 and you got bodies and
parts and a whole retrieval program. And why do so much and then leak it? Why wouldn't you just,
you know, you could put it with one of your assets in the Soviet Union and leak it in a much more
responsible, less visible way. And so from a psychological warfare point of view,
or PSYOP, it just, it doesn't work. It's like you're exposing too much information,
there's no need to create such a fancy document with such high credibility to try to scare the
Soviets. They have their own crashes. No ETs are real. I mean, or China, they
they penetrated the Manhattan Project, you know, within a year to get the atomic bomb.
And I'm sure that they were right on top of the whole, you know, UFO crash UFO thing. So
it doesn't really make much sense in my mind. And the same thing is true with the entire swath
of majestic documents. Is it why in the world would you try to do something over 19 years with
so many documents of so many different different quality aspects? Some are really just photocopies,
other original documents. So it just if you're trying to scare the living daylights out of some,
you know, foreign intelligence agency, it's probably better to do something else.
With all this talk of the Psalm 101, let's spend some time authenticating the document
and spend some time analyzing arguments against the document. Now there is a witness,
Navy Yeoman Dale Bailey, who alleges he saw the Psalm 101 manual when he was assisting in the
destruction of classified UFO material for an admiral in 1976. Mr. Wood is currently in the
process of locating files on this witness from his father's archive, so I may have some testimony
from this individual soon. Within the words of the document, the woods have noticed many minute
details that speak to the manual's authenticity. These include the mention of craft tape when
discussing packaging NHI materials, not duct tape, which is accurate to 1954 shipping methods,
as well as some spelling mechanisms, such as screwdriver being two words,
which was customary in 1954, the capitalization of first aid, which was changed to lower case in
the late fifties, the abbreviation of New Mexico as n.mex, not n.m, which was altered for zip codes,
as well as the solo typo in the document in the word desiccant. And there is, of course,
the point we touched on earlier, the raising of the letter Z, which indicated the usage of a hot
lead press. Many detractors to the document like to point to the cover page and usage of variable
fonts and drop shadow font, but we can find other Army field manuals from this time period
using the same styling. Odd fonts had also been used in various documents, like this October 24,
1952 memo initiating the NSA under the Truman administration. Blocked epistemology has theorized
the usage of fonts was actually experiments done by Dr. Vannevar Bush, who actually experimented
with fonts, such as pictured here in a popular mechanics magazine, where we can see Bush operating
a novel photo type setting machine out of EGNG in 1950. Bush even led the design of the cryptographic
machinery used by the NSA's predecessor, OP20-G. Skeptics of the memo additionally like to point
out a restricted classification on the memo's cover page and how the memo cannot be both top
secret and restricted since restricted classification falls below confidential and top secret.
This is a misunderstood point. According to the 1947 Atomic Energy Act, information on atomic
energy is born classified, even if not created by USG elements. In situations such as these,
restricted data is not a level of classification. A document containing restricted data can also
be classified as secret or top secret. The Psalm 1 was also written during the time that
the restricted classification level was phased out of USG to confidential. So we can find articles
during this time about an extended changeover period due to some issues. Additionally, skeptics
point out the fact that Area 51 S4, as highlighted in the classification table, did not exist in
1954. And this is a very important point to address. Yeah, well, and we found a newspaper
article in 51 basically contractors are pissed off that there was this huge government contract
awarded to a competitor for hundreds of millions of dollars for concrete out in Area 51. And they're
fighting back and forth in the newspaper in 51. And the other thing is it was Groom Lake. There was
a mine, the Groom Lake mine, which was a borax mine there already, that could have been exploited
to be enhanced for an underground facility as well. That could still be researched further
to find out from the mining department and the historical records. Well, how big was this
underground borax mine? How many millions of square feet is it or was it? Where precisely is it?
So you could dig further to provide further evidence there. But yeah, clearly, it was started in 51.
And it's I'm sure started small. I strongly recommend reading Jan Aldrich's 1996 criticism
of the Special Operations Manual. Aldrich's primary criticisms of the manual revolve around what it
doesn't include, such as instructions to tell recovery teams to set up a grid, photograph the
scene and tag each item for future reference. Aldrich also criticizes the use of downed satellites,
which in 1954 was before the time of Sputnik. The use of the word satellite has been utilized
commonly during this time period in literature to discuss space debris. I find much of his
criticisms to be fluff, such as problems with interchanging the phrases MJ12, Magic 12, and
Majestic 12 throughout the document, and can't help but to feel that Aldrich cherry picked his
argument surrounding what is not instructed of the recovery teams. However, I do think his criticisms
are important to understand when reading the document. If you want to read more, Ryan and
Dr. Bob have a massive section on their website, specialoperationsmanual.com,
authenticating the Psalm 101. I highly recommend reading this for a more of a deep dive into
authenticating the manual. The article explores more into the provenance of the document,
including analyzing the anonymous store in Wisconsin where the film was mailed.
With all of this discussion around the Psalm 101, I found it important to touch on the
legitimacy of other majestic documents, especially those that have been found in
avenues such as the National Archives. Ryan had many more to reference. There was the Cutler
Twining Memo. This is Bob Cutler, Robert Cutler to the National Security Council, and it says
M.J.12 Special Studies Group in 1954. It doesn't say majestic, but it says
M.J.12 Special Studies Group. It's the original Onion Skin. It's in the Library of Congress
Manuscript Division in downtown Washington. There's other documents, too. There's one at
College Park in Maryland from the Joint Intelligence Objectives Agency, which is part of
Paperclip. This says C.I.A. M.J.12 on the bottom of a memo for Project Paperclip,
Project 63, I think. Anyway, there's a couple of examples, and then there's acknowledgement,
as I mentioned earlier, that the Interplanetary Phenomenon Union exists as well.
It's not like there's no evidence from the National Archives, let alone all the other stuff,
all the other UFOs, Project Sign, Project Grudge, and all that research.
Of course, with Ross Colthart's new Reality Check program, interest in JFK and the majestic
documents is at an all-time high, and I was super keen to explore this avenue.
I think it's in the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit, one where they say that Kennedy
was given some information or believed to have gotten information from somebody in Congress
while he was before he was elected president. Kennedy was aware of it, according to the
documents, of this topic and its importance. There's also National Security Action Memorandums
from, like, a week before he's assassinated, where he says to James Webb, the head of NASA,
I want you to share with the Russians the knowns and the unknowns. And by implication,
that means, you know, open the kimono and tell the Soviets all about UFOs. And there's lots of
reasons why Kennedy would be assassinated. But here's another one reason is that you might have
told the truth or pushed harder on cooperation with the Soviets. I mean, particularly after his,
you know, Bay of Pigs, you know, showdown, you didn't want that to happen again.
The connection with JFK and MJ-12 does not stop here. Within the majestic documents lies
a re-typed NSA intercept of JFK's hotline talking to the premier about the UFO situation
and national security implications. JFK has also mentioned within another set of documents would
consider to have the highest authenticity rating, the Burnt Memo. In June of 1999, UFO researcher Tim
Cooper received an anonymous letter from a source claiming to be a CIA counterintelligence officer
with documents that would connect MJ-12 to JFK's murder. The source commended Cooper on
his decision to have worked with Dr. Bob on the majestic files. The files included by the source
claim to have been some of the last surviving paper MJ-12 documents after a special classified
executive order from Nixon ordered all MJ-12 documents to be destroyed and moved onto computers.
The Burnt Memo was allegedly snatched from a fire before being destroyed and is unlike most
documents original paper. This memo is from MJ-1, aka the director of central intelligence.
The memo is directed to MJ's two through seven in reference to Project Majestic in Jehovah,
Aviro, Parasite, and Parheleon. Quote, As you must know, Lancer, codeword for JFK, has made some
inquiries regarding our activities which we cannot allow. End quote. We can also find a 1961
document allegedly sent by JFK to the director of the CIA requesting an update on the psychological
warfare plans related to the Majestic-12. And here is a very interesting additional point. In 2023,
President Biden ordered some documents from the JFK investigation be released. One name of note
within these documents was CIA agent Reuben Efron, who was intercepting Lee Harvey Oswald
months before his assassination. I do find it a bit strange, the October 15, 1955 Central
Intelligence Bulletin listed operative Reuben Efron as well as three other USG or US military
personnel as witnessing disc-like UFOs when traveling via train in the Caspian Sea.
There are hundreds of majestic documents and the woods have implemented a really quality
scale to gauge the authenticity of these documents. So of course, with so many documents from so many
sources over so many years, I was encouraged to ask Mr. Wood if there were any documents he suspects
are forgeries. Yeah, that's a good comment. At this point, I don't have any information that
any document that's listed on the website is fake. I have no credible evidence that it's
genuinely fake. I mean, so to fake something you have to have really, what's the specific,
why did you fake it? Did you launch it against a specific target in intelligence? Are you trying
to mess with the UFO community? Why bother? The general attitude of the intelligence community
or the people that control this secret is to ignore everything and provide no additional
confirmation or evidence. They just try to manage leaks and discredit people. So
that's the methodology for managing leaks. So I would say at this time, I have no evidence that
anything has been faked. Now, I've got lots of documents where you can't do anything more,
like the Aquarius document that came out in the Carter, was allegedly signed by Carter.
Yeah, I wanted to bring that up. That was brought forth by UFO researcher Lee Graham,
the Aquarius document package. Can you talk about that and describe it a little bit along with
kind of your feelings on it? Yeah, I mean, it's sort of fluff in my mind. I mean, it's informed
fluff, but there's nothing to check. There's not enough specifics to validate or check anything.
And it just seems odd that a document like this would be devoid of specifics. Maybe they wanted
to ensure that there weren't any specifics that were checkable. But that's the part that's troubling
and you can't check it. So you don't know what to do with it. So that's why it's in
that Stan Friedman calls the gray basket or I call the neutral basket where I need more evidence
to push it down or up. As we know, the majestic documents were leaked during the 1984 to 1999
era. This time was post Robertson panel and Condon committee where public interest in UFOs
were at a relative low. Only behind the scenes in the 70s were researchers like Leonard Stringfield
doing serious research on crash retrievals. With the majority of the documents dating back to the
40s and 50s, I asked Mr. Wood why he thought the leaks occurred when they did. But it was really
about Vannevar Bush writing to Eisenhower saying, you know, we have all these celestial gifts
of crash UFOs and we really ought to do something about it. And he said, be quiet, go win the war
and come back to me later. And when Roswell happened, they actually pushed at it and started
this organization. So who leaked it and why? Well, again, there's multiple sources and we don't
really know, but we know that there was two film drops in 84 and 94. Those may have been the same
people, but maybe not two different people. The certain method of delivery and undeveloped film
was the same. And then there was several mailings from Sacramento, California. There was several
mailbox drops. Some physically put in Tim Cooper's mailbox without postage. It's like somebody
went into the mail room where it was a member of the post office and put it in his mailbox
or cracked his code at the top and stuck it in. And then there was some mailings, for example,
from the Freedom of Information Act office at Fort Meade, Maryland that became physically mailed,
the Encyclopedia of Flying Saucers, which is original onion skin. And then there was
a couple of different documents that were, they had this dash one and dash two in the upper corner
on every page. And ultimately, Thomas Cantwheel wrote a letter at the time of his death or near
the time of his death to Tim Cooper. It basically said, here, Tim, by the time you get this letter
reaches you, I will left this world. So he's dying of cancer. And he goes on to describe
his relationship with Stringfield and Friedman and intelligence contacts at Fort Meade, Maryland,
Roswell, and then has a sketch of a craft that he sort of drew as the Roswell craft.
And then we also had another letter from Salina, which is allegedly the daughter of
Thomas Cantwell or Cantwheel, which is a pseudonym, you know, it's not his real name.
So, but he worked allegedly at the Interplanetary Phenomenon Unit and probably was an OSS officer
in that time frame. And, you know, you don't know what he what he died of other than cancer.
But so that's sort of the broad brush of the sources of materials. And there's so many names.
I mean, on the majesticdocuments.com website, there's a you dig around, there's a personnel
the master list right master personnel data list. And I urge everybody to file off your
Freedom of Information Act requests to the CIA and the NSA and the Air Force and Air Force
Office of Special Investigations and try to dig up more information and more FBI files on those
those people and individuals or go to the National Archives. So there's loads of research to be done.
It's just you got to pay people to do it. Right. This is a limited bandwidth. Everybody in ufology
sort of has this, you know, peak of enthusiasm and then it wanes and then you sort of have the
trough disillusionment and then if you keep going, you keep learning more. It's a complicated world.
The mention of Cantwheel sometimes mistaken as Cantwell here gives us a great opportunity
to analyze what we know about the majestic document leaks and their sources. There are three
major sources of document leaks. One, Cantwheel, who supplied much of the material we've covered
today to Tim Cooper, such as the IPU report and field order, Hill encoder magic memo,
first annual report and the JFK to director of the CIA documents. Selena, the alleged daughter
of Cantwheel supplied Cooper with 10 short memos alongside documents like the twining white
hot report, Eisenhower to Oppenheimer memo and directive from twining to Truman. And lastly,
we have source one who supplied the burn memo we spoke about earlier. In his letter to Cooper,
Thomas Cantwheel took ownership for many of the mailbox majestic document drops starting in 1992.
Timothy Cooper investigated Mr. Cantwheel and legally bound his findings in a five page affid
David distributed to Stanton Friedman and Dr. Bob Wood that can be found on MajesticDocuments.com.
Information obtained by Cooper and shared with Stanton and Bob
include claims of Cantwheel's background. Cantwheel himself stated to be part of the quote
counterintelligence core CIC scientific and technical branch interplanetary phenomenon
unit from 1942 to 1958. According to Cantwell, he served in the CIC until 1980 and worked for
CIA covert operations in the 60s and had contacts with the FBI, KGB and GRU. He claimed to have
retired as Lieutenant Colonel and been involved with the majestic community, Majcom and the
super secret 5412 group end quote. Well respected Reddit user Harry is white hot has spearheaded
an investigation into identifying this mysterious Cantwheel so credit for his amazing work.
Harry has proposed the idea for why CIA operative Boris Dmitry Tarasov is the man behind the enigmatic
Thomas Cantwheel. Tarasov's CIA career spanned between 1956 and 1968 after immigrating to the
US from Russia where his Russian language abilities proved invaluable to US intelligence agencies.
His US Army records from the counterintelligence core range from 1942 to 1945 where Tarasov then
left to the CIC to work for the Red Cross in Cleveland, Ohio. Harry wisely points out this
Red Cross work likely is a cover story for work on the IPU stationed out of right field which is
located in northern Ohio near Cleveland. Right field also house the army air material command
where General Nathan Twining alleged majestic 12 member was stationed. It's worth mentioning
during his time at the American National Red Cross Tarasov was employed for building maintenance
engineering under a social agency. One must ask why a counterintelligence operator tasked with quote
detailed composition of the foreign armies and their intelligence services approach and interrogation
of the enemy military personnel and civilian detection and prevention of the acts of sabotage
end quote would leave for a social agency four years into their career before rejoining the CIA.
Interesting connection here as well in Cooper's description of Cantwheel he states while Cantwheel
was part of the CIA and CIC he interrogated agents in West Germany. We can see on Tarasov's official
record in 1945 the agent attended the advanced CIC school in Ober Erself Germany where he was tasked
with quote extracting the necessary information from the enemy population military and members of
the Nazi party end quote. In his analysis of Cantwheel Cooper also states Cantwheel served as
US Army intelligence in Washington DC from 42 to 45. Well we can find Tarasov attended the Military
Intelligence Training Center and performed CIC work at Camp Richie Maryland a mere 70 miles from
DC in the year of 1945. At the time of Cooper sharing his investigation with Friedman and Wood
he believed Cantwheel to be living in California and to be in his 90s. We can find no obituary for
Tarasov but at the time of this personal history statement titled CIA historical review program
released as sanitized released in 1998 just two years removed from Cooper's investigation. Tarasov
was indeed living in San Leandro California born in 1908 this would have made Tarasov 88 at the
time of Cooper's investigation if he was still alive when Cooper received his letter. This rabbit
hole goes much deeper with Tarasov being stationed in 1963 as a translator operations officer in
Mexico City transcribing and translating some agency surveillance traffic from communist
aligned embassies and other specific targets. Tassarov's work was used as evidence to prove
that Lee Harvey Oswald visited Soviet compounds so of course Tassarov's work dovetails into the JFK
assassination. I personally have my own theory on the concentration of these documents as we see the
information collected on the Majestic 12 as a snapshot in time in the 40s and 50s. I draw your
attention to the 1954 atomic energy agreement as mentioned in the 2024 and 2025 Schumer legislation
which states NHI craft materials and bodies as well as UAP and legacy program information
were hushed away as trans classified foreign nuclear materials. I find it interesting after the
Psalm 101 which was released in 1954 most majestic documents dated after 54 contain nowhere near the
detail on program operations scope and purpose. Perhaps the 54 AEC agreement oversaw a drastic
shift in MJ12 records. I relayed this theory to Mr. Wood and he shared the same sentiment.
That's absolutely true. I think that's when it it sort of happened and and that's maybe why we got
the special operations manual is that you know the the Air Force officers that were responsible for
this basically got the rug pulled out of them said no no you guys don't get to do this anymore
it's going someplace else and people were pissed and this guy took it and decided at some point he
was going to leak it. Mr. Wood and myself circled back to the personnel list I touched on earlier
in the video with some of the original members named in the MJ12. I asked Mr. Wood about names
associated with the Majestic 12 that have been overlooked or forgotten about. Yeah I mean it's
in the white hot report it's mentioned that it was really forestall and bush that came together
and said we need to form this top secret research and development intelligence
gathering organization and I think it's also mentioned right there on the the front couple
pages of the special operations manual the history of the group where it talks about
special classified presidential order and James v. forestall and van of our bush
you know formed the group or recommended to the president to do that. Now forestall
you know he had a little bit of a drinking problem and he was very much of the attitude
that we need to be more open and potentially discuss this with more people. I don't know if
he was all the way to go public but he was thrown out the 75th well thrown out the top floor of
Bethesda Mizz Naval Hospital or fell out the floor or something. He fenestrated as they say
although I don't think it was windows it was you know bars but anyway he lost his life over that
and and actually one of the majestic documents that says it's even necessary and regrettable
that forestall had to lose his life and my book magic eyes only there's a dedication
to those that have lost their lives for the sake of UFO secrecy and forestall is clearly one person
that he lost his life for that sake of secrecy. So outside of bush and forestall are there any
kind of names that you think as you were talking about how the majestic documents in the master
list needs further investigation are there any names that you think are absolutely crucial
to study and or have kind of been looked over and forgotten about? Yeah I think so there's
the White Hot Report which is you know it's basically this is the group that went to Roswell
and did a bunch of analysis and worked all over the summer to create this report in September.
So it happened in July and this everybody went crazy and investigated and wrote up this report
and presented it to the president and others and there's the members of the mission.
You know there's people like Captain Charles Buchanan who the hell is he? I still haven't found
him and what's his military personnel record file like or Robert Ginsberg, Colonel Robert
Ginsberg or Captain Richard Glass or I mean Carl Hummelstein is a big well-known person.
Major General Stephen Chamberlain assistant chief of staff for intelligence he was certainly
a known you know major George McDonald that was his Chamberlain's boss. He was you know
he was like the chief of staff for the Air Force. Admiral Paul Lee he's very well known.
Leslie Groves head of the Manhattan Project he was he had all his team members there.
James Lay Jr. Thomas Lynch which is the finance guy in the Treasury Department.
So they had you know they got Navy and Air Force and finance people and as well as you know
von Karman and Oppenheimer and Doolittle, James Doolittle and Professor Einstein. So there's loads
and that's just one document where you could dig into the next level. You could write a whole book
on just that one document and all the interconnections and the validations of every single sentence
and every single linkage between people and their correspondence. It's a huge amount of work.
I mean I'd love to give somebody here's 50 grand. I want you to go write a whole book on
this one topic and go spend a year researching. And as I mentioned before we really do observe
the Majestic 12 as a snapshot in time. Myself and I'm sure every viewer of this video wonders
about the evolution of the alleged group. How they operate today and if in 2024 there is still
a group known as the Majestic 12. So the documents sort of in the history point of view are stop in
the mid 50s or so with the fifth annual report on Majestic. And I suspect that it's probably still
has the same name. It's such a rare club you know to lose that history and change the name seems
silly but they could do it. And there's probably certainly a lot of subclassifications
and different groups that are focused on hardware or bodies. Those are obvious bifurcations
of classification. But then probably within each of those there's probably additional
classifications to compartmentalize it and get into buckets where they could potentially work
with private corporations or other organizations. But in my mind it's the aerospace corporation
and the Carlisle group and EG&G and some of them the historical ones I mean Rand for example
was up to their eyeballs and this stuff. And there's probably a lot of them that have done
research historically. We have heard so much from Ryan about his involvement with the Majestic 12
but another key player is his father Dr. Robert Wood. Why did Dr. Bob a rocket scientist get
involved with UFOs in the Majestic documents? It was maybe 1967 or so 1967 where he started
reading a bunch of UFO books and convinced his management that are we gonna figure out how the
UFOs work before or after Lockheed does and they they said well how much money you want to try to
work on that bomb. And so he spent internal R&D Douglas aircraft company money and then
then the merger happened to McDonald Douglas. But so for a couple years they spent the equivalent
of four and a half million dollars working on gravity experiments theory. They interviewed
abductees. I mean I remember as a you know a little boy you know 13-14 going out to the Mojave
desert and one of his engineers was out there with a magnetometer and strip chart recorders and
they had anomalous events and sleeping on this couch in this you know high heat in the desert and
it was fun for for a kid at the time. So that was that was his work. They didn't have any
access to classified information but that was the start of his deep interest in UFOs and actually
he hired Stan Friedman to work for him and look at the nuclear physics aspect of UFO propulsion.
Viewers of my channel will remember Project Moondust an official group proposed in 1961
by the U.S. Air Force alongside projects Blue Fly and UFO. Moondust was tasked to quote locate,
recover and deliver descended foreign space vehicles and quote. Moondust counterpart Blue Fly
served to quote facilitate expeditious delivery to foreign technology division of Moondust or
other items of great technological intelligence interest and quote. In my video on Moondust we
covered a variety of fascinating cases occurring in Nepal, Afghanistan, Canada and a 1965 case in
the Congo with an accompanying memo titled fragment metal recovered in the Republic of the Congo.
Origin believed to be an unidentified flying object. Moondust does indeed have connections to
the majestic documents in a fascinating original document called the Bowen manuscript.
Oh yeah I mean Moondust is definitely a recovery organization. I mean it's space junk primarily
but occasionally it's you know down saucers and so if there's some obvious evidence that it's a
saucer they may have a different team that goes but the Moondust people were very much involved
um and so that's logical that they would do that. I guess I wanted to bring up one final
thought for you is that many people say oh these are all photocopies uh and um and I guess I just
wanted to highlight you know one of the leaked ones um well sent from Fort Meade from Freedom
Information Act office was this one Top Secret Magic. This is original onion skin
paper that we've done forensic analysis on and for ink and pencil marks and it has
commenced by Vannevar Bush and it has hints of we have anti-gravity craft in you know 1960s.
Uh the Encyclopedia of Flying Saucers the the Bowen manuscript and actually there's a book
that um it's on Amazon called the Encyclopedia of Flying Saucers by Vernon Bowen who who wrote it and
it's uh it's very well done history of UFO cases from 1960 and before so that's when
he typed it sent it into the Air Force and never got it back until um 39 years later. Wow and the
document has comments from Vannevar Bush. Yeah it's yeah it's like there's there's comments in
marginalia and in pan and ink marks like you know what is Don Menzel doing question mark
in relation to these comments in the topic and then uh another one was um in relation to
could these craft be our man-made uh uh you know experimental vehicles and hand written on the side
in ink is this should not get out uh implying in my mind that uh very of deep concern that we're
got gravity control craft. Wow. And so that's uh that's juicy. My research and my father's
research on the majestic documents is um rich and robust and highly supportive of their authenticity
and credibility and I welcome objections to it and if if you have some it's fake because uh statement
or I don't like it because I'm all ears but I've not found any credible objections. All right thank
you so much Mr. Wood. Thank you. What's up guys thank you so much for joining me into this
investigation and documentary on the majestic 12 and majestic documents. Before I get into my
usual ramblings at the end of every video I need to say a couple things one thank you Mr. Ryan S. Wood
thank you for sitting down with me doing this interview answering hours of questions and emails
in the majestic documents the majestic 12 me requesting additional files me requesting images
and so forth this man is truly of incredible character and I am so thankful one of my biggest
inspirations in the field of ufology agreed to sit down with me and cover the majestic documents.
For anybody who has watched a single one of my videos you know I reference
this book magic eyes only as the greatest book I have ever read on UFO crash retrievals by Ryan S.
Wood. I highly encourage anybody to purchase this book because it also covers much of the majestic
12 including the authenticating of the special operations manual. It also includes a full copy
of the special operations manual. Third Ryan S. Wood has a beautiful tool I don't see referenced
much this is a website called ufo decks ufo dex.com what this is Ryan S. Wood trained a chat GPT
model and scanned in between 500 and 800 UFO books you can submit a question on any topic in
ufology and receive an answer from Mr. Wood. I myself have used this tool dozens of times
and I've used it in a lot of my past research such as referencing the 1974 koyame case discussing a
certain private corporation I'm going to cover soon and I even asked it about underwater bases
that NHI might inhabit after reading and hearing about some parts of Lou Elizondo's new statements.
So thank you Mr. Wood please get a copy of magic eyes only please go to majesticdocuments.com where
you can read all 33 or 35 of the reports I referenced today in depth of course with
YouTube video descriptions it's a little too tough to include all links especially when I have
between 50 and 60 research files so you'll look in the video description you will see every document
we covered today which is over 30 you'll find the exact name go to majesticdocuments.com punch
that in copy and paste it review the document while watching the video I think that's really
important when we're discussing a document you can have it on another monitor I'm part of your
screen kind of read through what we're going through you know me I like to cite my work so
all of these documents will be available for you to read super easily okay onto my ramblings the
majestic 12 has consumed my life for the past couple of weeks to the point where I have not even
touched this and this is going to be my next reading I cannot wait to dive in but I highly
recommend anybody get the majestic magic eyes only book and a book I referenced multiple times in
the video top secret magic by Stanton Friedman if you want to learn more until the authentication
of the Eisenhower briefing document Cutler 20 memo Truman forest all memo this is the book for you
it was written in the 90s but this is a beautiful piece that's so useful to investigate more into
what we've been talking about today Stanton Friedman is a legend amongst Ryan Wood Robert Wood so
please check out this book if you want to learn more it's fantastic so now we can get onto some
of my thoughts anybody who's watched my videos knows more and more over time I've been referencing
the majestic documents a perfect example is my last video the 1974 koyame crash retrieval
I referenced the first annual majestic report as well as the ipu report before that in my 1955
crash video near del Rio Texas I referenced the Eisenhower briefing document in the 1950 crash
listed there also touched on by Lou Elizondo to have occurred near El Indio in Guerrero
I made some statements public that I thought that the majestic 12 was likely a real organization
and the majestic files had probably been a mix of information and disinformation at that time I
had not spent the amount of time I have now pouring through the documents looking at connections
looking at research and just immersing myself in so much time I think the majestic 12 encompasses
so much more than what I initially suspected uh what really took me by surprise was the amount
of length behind authenticating the Eisenhower briefing document and special operations manual
those of course are two of the big heavy hitters we talk about this in this stock in this video
but towards the end of the video you'll remember the bowen manuscript and you remember how
the author bowen I can't remember his first name sent this into the Department of Defense in 1960
to get it reviewed he never got a copy back it wasn't until 1999 Timothy Cooper got this uh
from a foyer designation Fort Mead with comments all over it from vanavar bush and stamp top secret
magic now of course we discussed how this referenced moondust uh that vanavar bush made
comments on uh anti-gravity vehicles but this the discussion of moondust and insect like beans
reminded me so much of Dr. Sarbacher and of course I discussed that video Dr. Sarbacher
multiple times but we have to remember that within the majestic files one if not the key player is
Dr. vanavar bush of course the beginning of the majestic leaks occurred in 1980 but the thing is
we can trace Dr. Robert Sarbacher discussing vanavar bush directing UFO study in the U.S.
government as far back as 1950 around the time of the alleged mj-12 connection so I never thought
the Sarbacher connections would go so deep here remember Dr. Sarbacher even when talking to uh
Stanton Freeman namedrop Dr. Eric Walker Dr. Eric Walker himself confirmed to know of the mj-12's
existence to say it's real along with a really interesting quote that reminded me of Don Quixote
chasing at windmills perhaps what he meant by this is you might have the majestic documents
because I believe this uh interview came out in the mid to late 80s Sweden have all the majestic
documents I think that he may have meant you might have these majestic documents you may be able to
read them but you will never get to the bottom of it it's futile to try and fully grasp the
extent of the majestic files and speaking of Dr. Eric Walker what really interests me thinking
about now is how his claims about a ESP getting into the program and so forth so that was just
fascinating to me the connections with Sarbacher because remember Sarbacher described insect like
beans as well in the encyclopedia flying saucers vanavar bush underlining these subjects is so
fascinating and let's not forget at the end of the 14 page sample provided on majesticdocuments.com
there's a section talking about Mussolini and Hitler uh being exposed to some sort of craft
in 1942 vanavar bush underlines this as well almost underlines a whole paragraph this brings
my mind back to the 1933 magenta italy case anybody else it's just it's really fascinating um
some of the other documents that really interest me of course are the ipu report
nine pages talks about the sandia lab technicians talks about the crew at roswell
so much of these documents kind of focus around roswell right i think there's so much more work
to be done on the jfk assassination in mj12 so much more work to be done on forestall's death in the
mj12 because that's very interesting i think many people think of a conspiracy around forestall's
death as well throwing himself out the 13th story of a of a naval hospital room so there's
so much more work to be done there and there's so much more work to be done on the majestic
documents in general right uh as mr wood has said much of these documents as he likes to say
are onion skin where we have original copies in fact i'd say that's the minority of the reports
many of them are facts from triax film uh photo copies and so forth so there's some provenance
work that can't be done on these documents like mr wood has done with the bow and manuscript actually
dating the ink back to 1962 of when vanavar bush wrote moondust on the the paper so
i think if we look at the majestic 12 we can't argue for the validity of all of these documents
but i think it is a safe line of research to kind of understand the majestic 12 likely was
likely was and possibly is a real group tasked with the study material exploitation
and reverse engineering and crash retrieval of ufo's how that looks today i would reckon
it involves much more of a private sector uh as beautiful as it is with the sarbacher video we
get to see a snapshot of the early days of ufo crash retrieval and i think the majestic documents
are the perfect example of really investigating the early days the early players the early
organization and the early procedures of ufo crash retrieval but anyway guys remember magic eyes
only and top secret magic check them out majestic documents dot com for the astute of you and my
mma fans you will see this large signed alexander vulcanovsky poster from his knockout of yaya
rudriga's in the third round of ufc 290 my wonderful girlfriend got me this piece for an
early birthday present it's not my birthday for months but i think she knows i'm such a huge
alexander vulcanovsky fan she had to get this for me and that is the best gift i've ever had so
of course i changed the camera a little bit as you see so you can get that in full view
coming down the line we got a lot of great projects guys i know this one took a little
time i really wanted to get this right this video was so important so guys please get yourself a
copy of magic eyes only check out majestic documents dot com and let me know in the comments what you
think of the majestic documents and how your opinion changed before and after this video
please remember to like and subscribe guys and remember i got a patreon i'm not charging or
paywalling extra content only support what you think the channel is worth and i thank everybody
so much for their time watching an hour and probably 40 minute video at this time so thank
you guys very much and i will catch you on the next video bye